--> Git is distributed version control system for tracking source code during software development. can be used for any document containing code.
	in distributed versioning like git we can work without network connection as we have local copies of all branches. 

--> there are plenty of graphical interfaces for using Git but they don't have all functionality that we have with using comand line.
    using command line we can build some powerful commands which we can't using GUI so comand line is always  perfered.

--> main advantage which Git provides are below: Backup of code, Versioning /history of development, opportunity to undo particular changes, 
	Comparing code at differnt stages of development, collbaration among different developers, We can figure out which developer did mistake,
	we can isolate the different code changes from one another, we can write sample code without disturbing original code, we can switch different 
	context, some git tool even provide opportunity to review code in bits and pieces.

--> git has always 4 stages out of which 3 are local and last 4th on the remote serve.
	1) local working directory : folder which store all content of our project.
	2) staging area: the place which queues changes to commit in future.
	3) Git repository (hidden .git folder in working directory) : manage all commit history to the repository.
	4) remote repository: Final step where we have to save all local things to remote server. 
	5) branches: contain commits or rahter branches are collection of commits to repository.
	   by default when we create repository we get master branch as default branch.

--> To start with github first we should have github account. there are alternative but github is by far most famous among all.
	1) create new repository.
	2) create local folder where we want to keep our local repository install gitbash for windows.
	3) open gitbash from created folder and clone it using git clone reposurl // we have to provide http or ssh url of the repository. http for beginner.

--> git config --global user.name ="username" and git config --global user.email ="emailid" set the basic info to work with in future.
	we can check same by typing git config --global list

--> git status command tell us on which branch you are on currently and also if that branch is in sync with remote repository or not.

--> now to start with let's create sample text file in our local repository.
	1) created start.txt. git status will tell us branch name and will say branch is up to date with remote branch.
	   but it will also tell that there is one untracked file. untracked file means just changes to local which are not even added.
	2) we have to add those changes to staging area. staging area accumulate all such changes so that in future we can commit all of them
	   together as one bunch. we have to add message for that bunch.
	   git add filename : will add file to staging area.
	   git status : now will tell branch name and whether branch is in sync with remote repository. but also it will tell files to commit
	                means those files which are added to staging area but not yet commited.
	3) now we can commit our local file.
	   git commit -m "message for that particular commit which contain all staged changes" 
	   // if we do not give commit message git will invoke editor asking for message.after entering message press escape esc and then type :wq and hit enter to go back.
	   git status: now will tell extra info that local branch(master) is ahead of remote branch(origin/master) by 1 change.(default branch is master obviously)
	   it also tell that working directory is clean means there is nothing present in staging area. and ofcourse no untracked file if nothing which is in
	   unstaged state. i.e. not moved to staging area. 
	   // so now we are getting idea about 3 different local regions. working directory where initial changes resides.
	      staging area where changes reside after git add and then repository(local) where committed changes reside.
	   // before this branches were in sync but not now because git compare only committed changes which are there in local repository.
	   // often remote branches means origin/branchname where local branch is just branchname.
	4) until this step everything was local even commit. thats why our local branch is ahead of remote branch by 1 commit.
	   git push origin master : will push the our commit to remote repository. origin name indicate that changes are being pushed to remote branch of repository.
	   git status: will now tell that local branch is up to date with remote branch.
	   to confirm it go to github account and check repository there must be our new changes.
	   // while we pushing our local commits to remote branch we are interacting to github account so while executing git push origin master
	      gitbash may ask for username and password if they are not configured locally.
	   
--> origin is nothing but name of the remote we have set for our local repository. we usually will deal with only one remote. so adding origin while
    pushing can be omited but recommended to add as best practice. however in case we have multiple remotes we have to specify name which is origin for github.
	there could be other remotes similar to github. similarely if we don't provide branch name it will push branch which is checked out. but by providing name we can 
	even push branch which is created but not checked out (not working currently).
	
--> Two start and project with git we usually will face 3 different scenarios:
	1) We haven't created repository at local as well as at remote. we have to start freshly with beginning.
	   git init repo-name: will initiate empty git repository with given name in that particular folder. git init causes to create all configuration required for git repo.
	   git add, commit and but we can't push until we match it with remote repo. so first we need to go to our github account and create repo (without readme.txt)
	   then copy the url of that repo and then. 
	   git remote add origin repourl; git push origin master; 
	2) we have develpoed code on local project and now thinking to push it to github. process would be exactly same as aboe scenario except we have already changes to add.
	3) there is public repository on github and we want to contribute to it. by git clone we just make local copy of the repository but after developing we will
	   not able to push to remote since remote repo belongs to some other user whose credentials are private ofcourse. so we first need to go to github.comand.
	   fork that git repo by clicking on fork button then copy of that repo will be added under our account and then we clone repo under our account and push the code 
	   to our repo under our account. and then create merge request of our remote repo to original repo from which we had forked.

--> git add . : (git add .) will add all files to stagin area which are modified or added to working directory. which we can commit in bunch.

--> when many people work on same repository it's vvery important habbit to take latest code from remote repository before pushing our code to remote repository.
	git pull origin master: this take latest code of remote repository to the local repository.

--> if some changes are in working directory but not yet in staging area then all such files with such changes are untracked files. i.e. files are not being tracked by git.
    once we move changes to stagin area bu git add filename then those files are being tracked by git. we can get this info by git status.

--> git add doesn't mean adding new file, it means you are adding changes to staging area for upcoming commit. Also when we say something which is moved to staging area,
	that dosen't mean file but particular change in file. So it is very possible and common that two different changes in particular file might belong to differnt region.
	i.e. one change is still not staged and another one is staged. so when we check git status in such case we will get that file in staging as well as working directory.

--> As of now we know that we have to add changes to stagin areas first by using git add and then we  have to commit them. Normally we commit using -m flag for the message.
	for commit. but we can also add and commit both things in single command.
	git commit -am "adding and commiting at same time"  in this cases all the changes which were untracked and were not present in staging area will be added to staging
	area and will be pushed immediately.

--> When we have moed changes in any file by mistake to staging area and now we realised that those changes were not necessary then we can pull back those changes from 
	staging area using git reset HEAD
	i.e. git reset HEAD filename.txt : it will take out filename.txt file from staging area.

--> git reset HEAD filename can help us to move back file from stagin area to the working directory , but still those chnages are physically present in working directory
	and we can again add them to stagina rea. if we want delete those changes even from working directory then we can do that using git checkout -- filename.
	i.e. git checkout -- filename.txt : will delete all changes to that particular file.

--> 
	   
	   
	   
	   
	   
	   
	   
	   
	   
	   
	   
	   
	   
	   
	   
	   
	   
	   
	   
	   
	   
	   